---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.Active
name: Active
type: Property
summary: Gets a collection of reason/value pairs used to determine or change the [Action](xref:112622)'s active state. The resulting state determines the Action's visibility.
syntax:
  content: |-
    [Browsable(false)]
    public BoolList Active { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList
    description: A [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList) object that represents a collection of key/value elements.
seealso:
- linkId: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.Changed
- linkId: "403709"
- linkId: "113103"
---
The **Active** property contains key/value pairs with the reason(s) why an action should be activated or deactivated. If all the reasons are set to **true**, the Action is activated. If at least one reason is **false**, the Action is deactivated. An inactive Action is invisible and cannot be executed.

> [!NOTE]
> To disable (gray out) an Action instead of hiding it, use the [ActionBase.Enabled](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.Enabled) property.

Keys and values can be added to the **Active** [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList) for various sources. For instance, the value with the "Controller active" key determines whether or not a [Controller](xref:112621) to which this Action is added is active. Thus, if an Action's Controller is inactive, this Action will be inactive as well. At the same time, although this parameter is set to **true**, the Active list may contain an item added by another source that deactivates the Action for another reason. E.g., the [Security System](xref:113366) may deactivate an Action because the current user does not have proper permissions.

Except for values written by XAF, you can add your own key/value items to the **Active** list to manage the Action's visibility. To deactivate an Action, add an item with the **false** value to this list. To subsequently activate the Action, either remove the previously added item using the [BoolList.RemoveItem](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.RemoveItem(System.String)) method, or set the value of this item to **true**.

## Example 1
The example below shows how to set a **Contact**'s **FirstName** value to the **NickName** property and deactivate the @DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.SimpleAction.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)
```csharp
using DevExpress.ExpressApp;
using DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions;
using DevExpress.Persistent.Base;
using MainDemo.Module.BusinessObjects;
// ...
public class SetNickNameController : ObjectViewController<DetailView, Contact> {
    private SimpleAction setNickNameAction;
    public SetNickNameController() {
        setNickNameAction = new SimpleAction(this, "SetNickName", PredefinedCategory.Edit);
        setNickNameAction.Execute += SetNickNameAction_Execute;
    }
    private void SetNickNameAction_Execute(object sender, SimpleActionExecuteEventArgs e) {
        Contact currentObject = ViewCurrentObject;
        if(currentObject != null) {
            currentObject.NickName = currentObject.FirstName;
            setNickNameAction.Active["ActionExecuted"] = false;
        }
    }
}
```
***

## Example 2
The following example demonstrates how to deactivate an Action when the [View.AllowNew](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.View.AllowNew) property is **false**.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
public class ViewController1 : ViewController {
    SimpleAction action1;
    public ViewController1() {
        action1 = new SimpleAction(this, "Create Object", DevExpress.Persistent.Base.PredefinedCategory.ObjectsCreation);
    }
    protected override void OnActivated() {
        base.OnActivated();
        action1.Active["ViewAllowsNew"] = View.AllowNew;
    }
}
```
***

To see another example of using the **Active** property, refer to the [How to: Deactivate (Hide) an Action in Code](xref:112728) topic.

> [!NOTE]
> Do not change **Active** items that are not added from your code. If you need to change the value of such an item, determine under what condition this item is added and change this condition. Refer to the [Determine Why an Action, Controller or Editor is Inactive](xref:112818) topic for additional information.

## Ways to Change the Active State
It is not always necessary to access the **Active** BoolList directly to hide an Action. In many situations, it is more convenient to define a rule or condition based on which an Action should be activated. Here are the most common ways to do this:

* Specify an Action's or Controller's properties - [ActionBase.TargetObjectType](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.TargetObjectType), [ActionBase.TargetViewType](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.TargetViewType), [ViewController.TargetObjectType](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.ViewController.TargetObjectType) and [ViewController.TargetViewType](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.ViewController.TargetViewType). For details, refer to the [Define the Scope of Controllers and Actions](xref:113103) topic.
* Use the [Conditional Appearance Module](xref:113286). Along with the other UI customization capabilities, it allows hiding and showing Actions based on the specified rules, for instance, based on the business objects' property values. See an example of how to hide an action using this module in the [Declare Conditional Appearance Rules in Code](xref:113371) topic (a rule with the **ActionState** ID).
* Use the [Security System](xref:113366). Basically, it allows defining the _Read_, _Write_, _Create_, _Delete_ and _Navigate_ permissions for business classes, objects and members. Built-in controllers that perform operations with business objects take these permissions into account when calculating the **Active** and **Enabled** states of their actions. For example, the **Delete** Action is disabled if a user does not have permission to delete the selected objects. You can also implement a similar functionality for your custom Actions (see [](xref:404204)).
* Specify properties in the Application Model that define the ability to perform different operations with business objects in a View: [IModelView.AllowNew](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Model.IModelView.AllowNew), [IModelView.AllowDelete](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Model.IModelView.AllowDelete), [IModelView.AllowEdit](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Model.IModelView.AllowEdit), [IModelCommonMemberViewItem.AllowClear](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Model.IModelCommonMemberViewItem.AllowClear). These properties affect the Active state of Actions that perform these operations.
* Use the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.IModelHiddenActions) node that allows you to hide an Action from a specific View using the Model Editor.

To use these approaches, you may need to know the identifiers of Actions which you want to hide and the Controllers to which they belong. Refer to the [Determine an Action's Controller and Identifier](xref:113484) topic to learn how to do this.
