---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceBase.Mode
name: Mode
type: Property
summary: Indicates the Collection Source's mode of operation.
syntax:
  content: public CollectionSourceMode Mode { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceMode
    description: A [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceMode) enumeration value specifying the Collection Source's mode of operation.
seealso: []
---
The **Mode** property indicates the mode in which the current Collection Source is created. The following modes are possible:

* **Normal**
    
    A collection of objects of the specified type is created by the [CollectionSourceBase.ObjectSpace](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceBase.ObjectSpace). For instance, the **XPObjectSpace** creates an [](xref:DevExpress.Xpo.XPCollection). All operations, e.g. filtering, are applied to it. This collection is accessible using the [CollectionSourceBase.Collection](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceBase.Collection) property.
* **Proxy**
    
    Two collections are created. The first one is an original collection created by the Object Space. The second one is an intermediate proxy collection. It represents the original collection's wrapper, because it implements several interfaces that are required for different built-in features. The [CollectionSourceBase.Collection](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceBase.Collection) property returns the proxy collection.

Suppose you have filtered a List View via the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.ListViewFilterAttribute). In **Normal** mode, if you iterate over the collection represented by the List View, you will only see the filtered objects. This is because in this mode, when the Collection Source's collection is filtered, the corresponding criteria is directly applied to the collection. In **Proxy** mode, the criteria are not directly applied to the original object collection. Instead, the filter criteria are applied to the proxy collection. So, in this mode, the underlying collection is unaffected and if you iterate over it, you will see all objects belonging to the collection.

To access the original collection of the Collection Source that is created in the **Proxy** mode, use the following code:

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
private PropertyCollectionSource propertyCollectionSource;
//...
    propertyCollectionSource = ((ListView)View).CollectionSource as PropertyCollectionSource;
    if (propertyCollectionSource != null) {
        propertyCollectionSource.CollectionChanged += 
            new EventHandler(propertyCollectionSource_CollectionChanged);
    }
//...
void propertyCollectionSource_CollectionChanged(object sender, EventArgs e) {
    XPBaseCollection collection = propertyCollectionSource.MemberInfo.GetValue(
        propertyCollectionSource.MasterObject) as XPBaseCollection;
    //Access the collection object here.
}
```
***

The **Mode** property does not affect control-specific filtering features. For instance, the **GridControl** used by the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Win.Editors.GridListEditor), allows end-users to filter data via the auto filter row and filter panel. When end-users use these features, filtering is performed on the control level and is not reflected in the Collection Source.

> [!NOTE]
> When a Collection Source is created in a mode other than [Client](xref:118449) (see [CollectionSourceBase.DataAccessMode](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceBase.DataAccessMode)), the **Mode** property is automatically set to **Normal**, because a proxy collection cannot be used.

When a Collection Source is created, the **Mode** property is set to **Proxy**, by default. However, you can apply the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.CollectionSourceModeAttribute) to an individual collection property to indicate which mode is required for the Collection Source that will be created for the nested List View representing the collection. Additionally, when you have to create a Collection Source in code, you can use a constructor with the _mode_ parameter.