---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Filtering.SearchClassOptionsAttribute
name: SearchClassOptionsAttribute
type: Class
summary: Specifies whether all properties of the target class can be used by the **FullTextSearch** [Action](xref:112622), if they satisfy the Filter Controller's [FilterController.FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.FilterController.FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode).
syntax:
  content: |-
    [AttributeUsage(AttributeTargets.Class | AttributeTargets.Interface, Inherited = true)]
    public class SearchClassOptionsAttribute : Attribute
seealso:
- linkId: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Filtering.SearchClassOptionsAttribute._members
  altText: SearchClassOptionsAttribute Members
---
By default, the **FullTextSearch** Action (see [FilterController.FullTextFilterAction](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.FilterController.FullTextFilterAction)) searches words typed entered by an end-user in the following properties of the objects presented by the current List View:

* Any property of the current object
* Any property of the aggregated object
* The default property of the referenced object
* The properties that are presented by visible columns in the current List View

Note that if the current List View uses [Server, ServerView, InstantFeedback, or InstantFeedbackView](xref:118450) mode (see [IModelListView.DataAccessMode](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Model.IModelListView.DataAccessMode)), non-persistent properties are excluded from searchable properties.

If the [FilterController.FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.FilterController.FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode) property is set to [FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode.VisibleColumns](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.FullTextSearchTargetPropertiesMode.VisibleColumns), only the properties that are presented by visible columns in the current List View are included in the search.

You can modify the set of the properties that are used when a criterion for the current List View is generated by the **FullTextSearch** Action's Criteria Builder. To do this, apply the **SearchClassOptions** attribute to the required business class or interface. This attribute takes the _includeMembersInCriteria_ parameter. Passing the [SearchMemberMode.Include](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Filtering.SearchMemberMode.Include) value as this parameter, you allow the Criteria Builder to use all the properties that it has added to the set of properties, to be used in the generated criteria. At the same time, you can easily exclude individual properties from this set by applying the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Filtering.SearchMemberOptionsAttribute) to these properties and passing SearchMemberMode.Exclude as the attribute's parameter. When there are many properties to be excluded from the search, it is easier to pass the [SearchMemberMode.Exclude](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Filtering.SearchMemberMode.Exclude) value as the **SearchClassOptions** attribute and apply the **SearchMemberOptions** attribute with the **SearchMemberMode.Include** parameter value to the required properties.

You can find application examples of the **SearchClassOptions** and **SearchMemberOptions** attributes in the Feature Center Demo, which is included in the XAF installation.