---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.Refresh
name: Refresh()
type: Method
summary: Invalidates all previously loaded objects in the current Object Space and resets any unsaved changes made by users.
syntax:
  content: public bool Refresh()
  return:
    type: System.Boolean
    description: '`true` if persistent objects were refreshed; otherwise, `false`.'
seealso: []
---
The `Refresh` method resets objects loaded by the current Object Space. Additionally, if there are unsaved changes, it raises the @DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.ConfirmationRequired event, and the handler's @DevExpress.ExpressApp.ConfirmationResult determines what happens next:
* `No` -- The changes are reloaded
* `Yes` -- The changes are saved and reloaded
* `Cancel` -- Refresh operation is aborted

The `Refresh` method resets all unsaved changes and invalidates previously loaded objects. If the method completes successfully, it returns `true`.

Use this method to update the current Object Space's persistent objects. For example, the built-in [RefreshController.RefreshAction](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.SystemModule.RefreshController.RefreshAction) Action uses this method.

The following events related to the `Refresh` method are available:

* [BaseObjectSpace.Refreshing](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.Refreshing)
    
    Handle this event to prevent the `Refresh` method from refreshing. Set the handler's `CancelEventArgs.Cancel` parameter to `true` to block the refresh.
* [BaseObjectSpace.CustomRefresh](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.CustomRefresh)
    
    Handle this event to perform a custom refresh operation. Set the handler's `CompletedEventArgs.Handled` property to `true` to show that you already performed the refresh. Set the handler's `CompletedEventArgs.IsCompleted` property to the value that the `Refresh` method returns.