---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Active
name: Active
type: Property
summary: Provides access to a collection of reason/value pairs used to activate or deactivate a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller), or determine its active state.
syntax:
  content: |-
    [Browsable(false)]
    public BoolList Active { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList
    description: A [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList) object that represents a collection of key/value elements.
seealso:
- linkId: "112818"
- linkId: "113103"
---
The decision to activate or deactivate a Controller is made based on all the collected requests. For example, the system may want to activate the Controller because the current View is appropriate. At the same time, the Security system may want to deactivate the Controller because the current User does not have the proper permissions. As a result, the Controller cannot be activated, because there is at least one reason for disallowing that. The **Active** property is designed to collect the reasons for activation/deactivation. It provides access to a collection of _reason_/_value_ pairs. Each element of this collection is a pair consisting of a string value representing a reason for activation or deactivation and a Boolean value indicating whether to activate or deactivate the current Controller. This collection is used to determine whether the current Controller is active. The Controller is active if none of the collection items' _value_ part is set to **false**.

To determine whether a Controller is currently active, use the **Active** property in a conditional expression. Alternatively, use the [BoolList.ResultValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.ResultValue) property of the object returned by **Active**.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
MyViewController myController;
//...
BoolList activeList = myController.Active;
if (activeList) {
    //...
}
```
***

To deactivate an active Controller, use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method of the **BoolList** object returned by this property. Pass the reason for deactivation as the first parameter, and **false**, or a Boolean expression, as the second parameter. Alternatively, you can use the **[_key_]** operator of the **BoolList** object returned by the **Active** property, to get or set the specified key's value.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
MyViewController myController;
//...
BoolList activeList = myController.Active;
activeList["myKey"] = false;
```
***

To activate an inactive Controller, use the [BoolList.RemoveItem](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.RemoveItem(System.String)) method of the **BoolList** object, returned by this property. Pass the key (reason) of the item with the false value. If this is a single item that has the false value, the Controller will be activated. Alternatively, you can use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method by passing the key, which has false as a value, and true as a new value for it.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
MyViewController myController;
//...
BoolList activeList = myController.Active;
activeList["disablingKey"] = true;
```
***

To activate or deactivate an Action instead of the entire Controller, use the Action's [ActionBase.Active](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ActionBase.Active) property.