---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionItem.Active
name: Active
type: Property
summary: Provides access to a collection of reason/value pairs used to make a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionItem) active/inactive, or to determine its active state.
syntax:
  content: |-
    [Browsable(false)]
    public BoolList Active { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList
    description: A [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList) object that represents a collection of key/value elements.
seealso: []
---
The decision to activate or deactivate a Choice Action Item is made based on all the requests collected at the current moment. For example, the system may want to activate the Choice Action Item because the object with which it is associated is available. At the same time, the Security system may want to deactivate the Choice Action Item because the current User does not have the proper permissions. As a result, the Choice Action Item cannot be activated, because there is at least one reason disallowing that. The **Active** property is designed to collect the reasons for activation/deactivation. It provides access to a collection of _reason_/_value_ pairs. Each element of this collection is a pair consisting of a string value, representing a reason for activation or deactivation, and a Boolean value, that indicates whether to activate or deactivate the current Choice Action Item. This collection is used to determine whether the current Choice Action Item is active. If none of the collection items has the _value_ part set to **false**, the Choice Action Item is active.

To determine whether a Choice Action Item is currently active, use the **Active** property in a conditional expression. Alternatively, use the [BoolList.ResultValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.ResultValue) property of the object returned by **Active**.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList activeList = myItem.Active;
if (activeList) {
    //...
}
```
***

To deactivate an active Choice Action Item, use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method of the **BoolList** object returned by this property. Pass the reason for deactivation as the first parameter, and **false**, or a Boolean expression, as the second parameter. Alternatively, you can use the **[_key_]** operator of the **BoolList** object returned by the **Active** property, to get or set the specified key's value.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList activeList = myItem.Active;
activeList["myKey"] = false;
```
***

To activate an inactive Choice Action Item, use the [BoolList.RemoveItem](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.RemoveItem(System.String)) method of the **BoolList** object, returned by this property. Pass the key (reason) of the item with the false value. If this is a single item that has the false value, the Choice Action Item will be activated. Alternatively, you can use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method by passing the key, which has false as a value, and true as a new value for it.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList activeList = myItem.Active;
activeList["disablingKey"] = true;
```
***

When a Choice Action Item's active state is changed, the [ChoiceActionBase.ItemsChanged](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionBase.ItemsChanged) event is raised.