---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionItem.Enabled
name: Enabled
type: Property
summary: Provides access to a collection of reason/value pairs used to make a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionItem) enabled\disabled or to determine its enabled state.
syntax:
  content: |-
    [Browsable(false)]
    public BoolList Enabled { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList
    description: A [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList) object that represents a collection of key/value elements.
seealso: []
---
The decision to enable or disable a Choice Action Item is made based on all the requests collected at the current moment. For instance, the system allows enabling because the object with which the Choice Action Item is associated is available, but the [Security System](xref:113366) can make it disabled because it is not intended for the current user. So, a Choice Action Item has the **Enabled** collection, whose elements represent a pair of string and Boolean values. The string value specifies a reason and the Boolean value specifies whether to make disabled the Choice Action Item for this reason. A Choice Action Item is considered enabled if none of the **Enabled** collection elements contain a **false** value.

To determine whether a Choice Action Item is currently enabled, use the **Enabled** property in a conditional expression. Alternatively, use the [BoolList.ResultValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.ResultValue) property of the object returned by **Enabled**.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList enabledList = myItem.Enabled;
if (enabledList) {
    //...
}
```
***

To disable an enabled Choice Action Item, use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method of the **BoolList** object returned by this property. Pass the disabling reason as the first parameter, and **false**, or a Boolean expression, as the second parameter. Alternatively, you can use the **[_key_]** operator of the **BoolList** object returned by the **Enabled** property, to get or set the specified key's value.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList enabledList = myItem.Enabled;
enabledList["myKey"] = false;
```
***

To enable a disabled Choice Action Item, use the [BoolList.RemoveItem](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.RemoveItem(System.String)) method of the **BoolList** object, returned by this property. Pass the key (reason) of the item with the false value. If this is a single item that has the false value, the Choice Action Item will be enabled. Alternatively, you can use the [BoolList.SetItemValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Utils.BoolList.SetItemValue(System.String,System.Boolean)) method by passing the key, which has false as a value, and true as a new value for it.

# [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)

```csharp
ChoiceActionItem myItem;
//...
BoolList enabledList = myItem.Enabled;
enabledList["disablingKey"] = true;
```
***

When a Choice Action Item's enabled state is changed, the [ChoiceActionBase.ItemsChanged](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Actions.ChoiceActionBase.ItemsChanged) event is raised.