---
uid: "112608"
seealso:
- linkId: "112617"
- linkId: "112618"
title: Windows and Frames
owner: Ekaterina Kiseleva
---
# Windows and Frames

Windows automatically generated by the **XAF** are defined by two objects: a control called [Template](xref:112609) and an abstract entity called Window. Similarly, lookup windows and embedded List Views are represented by a Template and Frame pair. A Window or Frame, in contrast to a Template, does not contain information on what controls must be located on it. Windows and Frames only include the information concerning their functions in the **XAF** applications.  This topic provides detailed information about these abstract UI entities. For information on Templates, refer to the [Templates](xref:112609) topic.

## Windows and Frames Overview
A Frame is defined by the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame) class; a Window, by the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Window) class. The **Frame** class is the base class of the **Window**. The difference between these classes is that a Window is an independent UI element, while a Frame has a parent. For instance, a main form and detail forms are defined by the **Window** class. A lookup editor's drop down window and embedded [List Editor](xref:113189) are defined by the **Frame** class.

XAF does not use **Window** class directly. In fact, Windows Forms applications create a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Win.WinWindow) class instance. It is a **Window** class descendant. You can use the **Window** type in the UI independent code, and cast it to the **WinWindow** type in the UI specific code.

The base functions of Windows and Frames are:

* Both of them serve as a site for a [View](xref:112611). 
	
	Business applications are mainly intended to view and edit data. That's why the default **XAF** application contains only Windows with Views. A Window itself in **XAF** is not useful to you. When building applications, you primarily refer to a Window to access its View. To do this, use a Window's or Frame's [Frame.View](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame.View) property. When implementing a custom feature, you may need to set another View to a particular Window. To do this, use one of the [Frame.SetView](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame.SetView*) method overloads.
* Both of them allow you to perform custom actions when they are being created or destroyed.
	
	When Windows and Frames are being created, they locate all appropriate [Controllers](xref:112621) and register them in their [Frame.Controllers](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame.Controllers) collection. Controllers, in turn, provide events that let you execute specific actions when creating or deleting the owner Window or Frame. Controllers are not shared between different Windows/Frames. Controller instances are created for each Window and Frame individually.

Windows (Frames) are displayed in a UI via [Templates](xref:112609). A Template displays both the actions of the window's Controllers and a View. You can access the template via the window's [Window.Template](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Window.Template) ([Frame.Template](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame.Template)) property, and customize this template. For information on template customization, refer to the [Template Customization](xref:112696) topic.

## Access Windows and Frames
When a Window or a Frame is created, it finds all [Controllers](xref:112621) related to it. To access them, you can use the desired Window's or Frame's [Frame.Controllers](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Frame.Controllers) property. However, in most cases you will need to perform the opposite operation. Since you will write code within [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller) classes, you will need to access the current Window or Frame that owns a particular Controller. To learn how to do this, see the following list.

* [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.WindowController)
	
	Window Controllers are objects that allow executing custom code when Windows are being created and destroyed. That is, you can override their protected **OnWindowChanging** method, handle the [Controller.Activated](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Activated) and [Controller.Deactivated](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Deactivated) events. In these event handlers, you can access the corresponding Window using the Controller's [WindowController.Window](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.WindowController.Window) property.
* [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.ViewController)
	
	View controllers are objects that allow executing custom code when Frames are being created and destroyed. That is, you can handle their [Controller.Activated](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Activated) and [Controller.Deactivated](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Deactivated) events. In these event handlers, you can access the corresponding Frame using the Controller's [Controller.Frame](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller.Frame) property. Of course, you can cast the Frame to the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Window) class, if the currently processed Frame is a Window.
* [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller)
	
	If a feature cannot be implemented via a Window Controller or a View Controller, you can create a custom controller by declaring a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Controller) class descendant. Every time a Frame is created, XAF calls each Controller's **OnFrameAssigned** method. Override this method to access the Frame or Window that is being created.
