---
uid: DevExpress.Persistent.BaseImpl.BaseObject.Oid
name: Oid
type: Property
summary: Specifies the persistent object's identifier.
syntax:
  content: |-
    [PersistentAlias("oid")]
    [VisibleInDetailView(false)]
    [VisibleInListView(false)]
    [VisibleInLookupListView(false)]
    public Guid Oid { get; }
  parameters: []
  return:
    type: System.Guid
    description: A globally unique identifier which represents the persistent object's identifier.
seealso:
- linkId: DevExpress.Xpo.XPObject
- linkId: DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace
---
To distinguish between different business objects and correctly identify them, the **BaseObject** class exposes the **Oid** property. This is an auto-generated property, meaning you do not need to assign identifier values for each persistent object. The **Oid** property can also be referred to as a primary key property, since it is represented by a primary key in the database. 

Note that when @DevExpress.Persistent.BaseImpl.BaseObject.OidInitializationMode is set to [OnSaving](xref:DevExpress.Persistent.BaseImpl.OidInitializationMode), new persistent objects have Guid.Empty as the Oid property value after they are created. The property gains a final value after the object is saved to the database.

The [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace) class exposes a number of methods that take the value returned by a business object's **Oid** property as a parameter. These methods allow you to find a particular object by its key property value, as well as perform additional actions based on it. The following table lists these methods.

* [XPObjectSpace.GetObjectByKey](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace.GetObjectByKey(System.Type,System.Object))
* [BaseObjectSpace.GetKeyPropertyName](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.GetKeyPropertyName(System.Type))
* [BaseObjectSpace.GetKeyPropertyType](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.GetKeyPropertyType(System.Type))
* [XPObjectSpace.GetKeyValue](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace.GetKeyValue(System.Object))
* [XPObjectSpace.GetKeyValueAsString](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace.GetKeyValueAsString(System.Object))

> [!NOTE]
> The **BaseObject**'s **Oid** property, as well as other base classes key properties, is not designed to be manually set. In fact, this is not supported and should never be done. Under normal circumstances, the **Oid** property does not even expose a setter.