---
uid: DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.Refresh
name: Refresh()
type: Method
summary: Updates the persistent objects belonging to the current Object Space.
syntax:
  content: bool Refresh()
  return:
    type: System.Boolean
    description: '`true` if persistent objects were refreshed; otherwise, `false`.'
seealso: []
---
Use this method to update the current [Object Space](xref:113707)'s persistent objects. 

[!include[refresh-code_snippet](~/templates/refresh-code_snippet.md)]

When you implement the [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace) interface in a class that descends from [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace), override the protected virtual `BaseObjectSpace.Reload` method. The [BaseObjectSpace.Refresh](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.Refresh) method calls `Reload`. 

[BaseObjectSpace.Refresh](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.BaseObjectSpace.Refresh) works as follows:

If no objects in the current Object Space have changed after you retrieve them or after the last commit (see [IObjectSpace.CommitChanges](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.CommitChanges)), `BaseObjectSpace.Refresh` recreates the in-memory object container. It calls the `Reload` method, retrieves the objects again, and returns `true.`

If at least one object has changed, the [IObjectSpace.ConfirmationRequired](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.ConfirmationRequired) event occurs. Handle this event to display a confirmation window that asks whether to save changes. Use the [XafApplication.AskConfirmation](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.XafApplication.AskConfirmation(DevExpress.ExpressApp.ConfirmationType)) method. This method returns a [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.ConfirmationResult) enumeration value that matches the end user’s choice. The next actions depend on this choice.

* **Yes**
    
    You call the [IObjectSpace.CommitChanges](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.CommitChanges) method. This method saves all tracked changes in the Object Space’s persistent objects to the database. The `Refresh` method returns `true`.
* **No**
    
    The `BaseObjectSpace.Reload` method recreates the Object Space's container for in-memory objects. In `XPObjectSpace`, it uses [XPObjectSpace.Session](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace.Session). In `EFCoreObjectSpace`, it uses [EFCoreObjectSpace.DbContext](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.EFCore.EFCoreObjectSpace.DbContext). The method re-retrieves persistent objects. The BaseObjectSpace.Refresh method returns true.
* **Cancel**
    
    The `BaseObjectSpace.Refresh` method does nothing and returns `false`.

The `WinModificationsController` handles the [IObjectSpace.ConfirmationRequired](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.ConfirmationRequired) event. This Controller only activates for Detail Views in Windows Forms applications. The handler shows a confirmation window as described above. The application does not show a confirmation window when you call the `Refresh` method in a List View. By default, the system sets the [ConfirmationResult.No](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.ConfirmationResult.No) value. This value discards all changes and retrieves objects again through a new database connection.

The following events related to the `Refresh` method are available:

* [IObjectSpace.Refreshing](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.Refreshing)
    
     Raised before the refresh to prevent it.
* [IObjectSpace.CustomRefresh](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpace.CustomRefresh)
    
    Raised before the refresh to force a custom refresh operation instead of the default one.

To implement a refresh operation, override the `BaseObjectSpace.Reload` method. In this method, recreate the Object Space's container for in-memory objects. In XPO, use [XPObjectSpace.Session](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.Xpo.XPObjectSpace.Session). In Entity Framework Core, use [EFCoreObjectSpace.DbContext](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.EFCore.EFCoreObjectSpace.DbContext).