---
uid: "404967"
title: .NET CLI Integration
seealso: []
---

# .NET CLI Integration

You can use the [.NET command line interface (CLI)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) to create XAF ASP.NET Core Blazor, Web API Service, and Windows Forms applications from the console (without using the DevExpress [Template Kit](xref:405447) and [DevExpress Unified Component Installer](https://www.devexpress.com/products/try/)). It is equivalent to[Template Kit](xref:405447) for .NET Core, but you can use it on any platform. This functionality is valuable for XAF developers who use Microsoft Visual Studio Code (VS Code) or JetBrains Rider in both Windows and non-Windows development environments (like Linux or MacOS).

This topic describes how to:

* Install the DevExpress XAF Templates to create an XAF project from [CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/).
* Register the NuGet feed to access the required NuGet packages.
* Create an XAF application.

## Step 1. Install DevExpress XAF Templates

Download the [DevExpress.XAF.ProjectTemplates](https://www.nuget.org/packages/DevExpress.XAF.ProjectTemplates) NuGet package and install it.
The package is available to everyone at [https://www.nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/). Users with Universal subscription can find the package in their personal feed at [https://nuget.devexpress.com](https://nuget.devexpress.com/).

```Console
dotnet new install DevExpress.XAF.ProjectTemplates
```

You can run the command below to see the list of available template options. These options are also described in detail in this article.

```Console
dotnet new dx.xaf -h
```

## Step 2. Obtain Your NuGet Feed Credentials

You need to obtain your personal NuGet feed credentials to access the **DevExpress.ExpressApp** NuGet packages from your project. You can use **NuGet feed URL** or **feed authorization key** to manage DevExpress packages.

1. Make sure your DevExpress.com account has access to XAF. This product line is included in the [Universal](https://www.devexpress.com/subscriptions/universal.xml) subscription.

2. Use your DevExpress credentials to log into [nuget.devexpress.com](https://nuget.devexpress.com/).

3. [Obtain your NuGet feed credentials](xref:116042#devexpresscom-online-nuget-feed-any-os) and copy them to the clipboard.

4. [Select DevExpress Online NuGet Feed as a NuGet Package Source](xref:116698#select-devexpress-online-nuget-feed-as-a-nuget-package-source).

    Alternatively, do it in the console. Run the following commands:

    ```Console
    # Register packages with an authorization key
    dotnet nuget add source https://nuget.devexpress.com/api/v3/index.json -n DXFeed -u DevExpress -p {your-feed-authorization-key}

    # Register packages with a feed URL
    dotnet nuget add source https://nuget.devexpress.com/{your-feed-authorization-key}/api/v3/index.json -n DXFeed
    ```

    For more information, refer to the following topic: [Install NuGet Packages with Command Line Interface (CLI) Tools](xref:117209).

    An error may occur if the specified source is already in the source list. Run `dotnet nuget list source` to view all the configured sources and ensure the specified and `nuget.org` package sources are enabled. To enable them, use the `dotnet nuget enable source` command.

    You can also pass the NuGet feed as a `-nf` parameter when you create a project.

    ```Console
    dotnet new dx.xaf -n MyXafApp -p Blazor -nf https://nuget.devexpress.com/{your-feed-authorization-key}/api/v3/index.json
    ```
    The command creates a project and adds the _nuget.config_ file with the DevExpress feed to the project folder.

## Step 3. Create an Application

Run the following command to generate an XAF application:

```Console
dotnet new dx.xaf -p Blazor Win -e2e -api Standalone -n DXApplication1
```

The expected output project should be identical to a project generated by the [Template Kit](xref:405447) with the specified platforms and other default options.

If you create a standalone Web API Service project, the cross-platform module project code is inserted into its appropriate place in the Web API Service project.

### Command Options

Specify the following command line parameters to customize the project:

Default `dotnet new` options:
`-n, --name <name>`
:   Solution name. If omitted, the command uses the name of the output directory.
`-o, --output <output>`
:   Specifies the output directory.
`--dry-run`
:   Displays a summary of what would happen if the given command line were run.
`--force`
:   Forces content to be generated even if it would change existing files.
`--no-update-check`
:   Disables the check for the template package updates when instantiating a template.
`--project <project>`
:   The project that should be used for context evaluation.
`-lang, --language <C#>`
:   Specifies the template language to instantiate.
`--type <solution>`
:   Specifies the template type to instantiate.

Template options:
`-nf, --nuget-feed <nuget-feed>`
:   Specifies the [NuGet Feed URL](xref:116042). Refer to [https://nuget.devexpress.com/#feed-url](https://nuget.devexpress.com/#feed-url) and login to your account to obtain your personal feed URL.
`-db, --database <SqlServer|SqlAzure|...>`
:   Specifies the database provider for the solution.
    SqlServer (_default_)
    :   Adds a connection for the Microsoft SQL Server database. 
    SqlAzure 
    :   Adds a connection for the Microsoft SQL Azure database. 
    PostgreSql
    :   Adds a connection for the PostgreSQL database. 
    MySql
    :   Adds a connection for the MySQL database. 
    Oracle
    :   Adds a connection for the Oracle database. 
    Firebird
    :   Adds a connection for the Firebird database. 
    Sqlite
    :   Adds a connection for the SQLite database. 
    
    If you need to create an application with EF Core and a database not mentioned above, create an application with EF Core and SQL Server database provider and update it manually as described in the following topic: <xref:404290>.
`-orm <EFCore|XPO>`
:   The target ORM for the solution.
    EFCore (Default)
    :   Adds the Entity Framework Core ORM.
    XPO
    :   Adds the XPO ORM.
`-dbu, --database-update <None|Auto|...>`
:   Configures whether ORM adds, modifies, and removes database objects if they do not match the data model structure. 
    Auto (_default_)
    :   In Debug mode, automatically updates the database schema. **Do not use with production databases or important data.**
    None
    :   Disables database schema updates. 
    Manual
    :   Enables manual ORM schema migrations via CLI. Refer to the following topic for more details: [EF Core Migrations](xref:405418#ef-core-migrations)
`-p, --platform`
:   Adds a platform-specific project.
    Blazor
    :   Adds an ASP.NET Core Blazor XAF project.
    Win
    :   Adds a .NET Core Win XAF project.
    Default (Default)
    :   Adds an ASP.NET Core Blazor XAF project unless `-api Standalone` is specified. In this case, adds a Web API Service project.
`-e2e`
:   Adds a Functional Test project with [EasyTest](xref:403852) if `true`. The default value is `false.`
`-api <Integrated|None|Standalone>`
:   Adds a [Web API Service](xref:403394) project.
    Integrated
    :   Adds an integrated Web API Service to the ASP.NET Core Blazor project that is generated automatically if you did not specify it previously.
    Standalone
    :   Adds a Web API Service project to the solution. The base module code is placed in the suitable place in the project if you did not specify any platform-specific project.
    None (default)
    :   Does not add anything.
`-s, --security <MiddleTier|OAuth2|Password|SSO|WinAD>`
:   [Security](xref:113366) options for the project.  Multiple values are allowed.
    MiddleTier
    :   Adds a MiddleTier Web API Service project used by other platforms to access the database.
    OAuth2
    :   Adds OAuth2 authentication providers (for example, GitHub).
    Password (default)
    :   Adds standard password authentication.
    SSO
    :   Enables Single Sign-On authentication. Automatically enables the `OAuth2` option and disables the `Password` and `WinAD` options.
    WinAD
    :   Adds Windows Active Directory authentication.
`-mt, --multitenancy`
:   Enables [Multi-Tenancy](xref:404436) if `true`. The default value is `false`.
`-m, --modules <None|All|...>`
:   Adds XAF built-in modules to the project. Multiple values are allowed.
    None
    :   Does not add any modules.
    All
    :   Adds all modules available for your configuration.
    Default (default)
    :   Adds the [Conditional Appearance](xref:113286) and [Validation](xref:113684) Modules. For a standalone Web API Service project, adds the following modules: Audit Trail, Validation, File Attachments, and Reports V2.
    Audit
    :   Adds the ORM-specific [Audit Trail](xref:112782) Module.
    Charts
    :   Adds the Windows Forms [Chart](xref:113302) Module.
    Clone
    :   Adds the XPO [Clone Object](xref:112835) Module.
    Appearance
    :   Adds the [Conditional Appearance](xref:113286) Module.
    Dashboards
    :   Adds the [Dashboards](xref:117449) Module.
    Files
    :   Adds the [File Attachments](xref:112781) Module
    Notifications
    :   Adds the [Notifications](xref:113688) Module.
    Office
    :   Adds the [](xref:400003) Module.
    PivotGrid
    :   Adds the Windows Forms [Pivot Grid](xref:113303) Module.
    Reports
    :   Adds the [Reports V2](xref:113591) Module.
    Scheduler
    :   Adds the [Scheduler](xref:112811) Module.
    StateMachine
    :   Adds the [State Machine](xref:113336) Module.
    TreeList
    :   Adds the Windows Forms [Tree List Editors](xref:112841) Module.
    Validation
    :   Adds the [Validation](xref:113684) Module.
    Variants
    :   Adds the [View Variants](xref:113011) Module.

>[!NOTE]
> The commands are case-insensitive.

## Step 4. Run the Application

1. Navigate to the application folder, build the application, and run the project:

    ```Console
    cd DXApplication1.Blazor.Server
    dotnet run
    ```

    The command output should contain the application URL:

    ```Console
    Now listening on: http://localhost:5000
    ```

2. Open your browser and navigate to the URL to see your application.

3. When you try to log in, the application should display the following message: "The application cannot connect to the specified database because the database doesn't exist, its version is older than that of the application, or its schema does not match the ORM data model structure." Run the `-updateDatabase` command to update your database. For more information, refer to the following article: [](xref:113239). You can also create a database manually.