If a non-persistent object implements @DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpaceLink and its @DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpaceLink.ObjectSpace property value doesn't match the Object Space that manipulates the object, the following exception is thrown: _'An error with the number 1021 has occurred. Error message: The object that was edited belongs to a different ObjectSpace. This error can occur if you manipulate your objects via an ObjectSpace to which these objects do not belong.'_

We recommend that you do not share non-persistent objects when they implement [IObjectSpaceLink](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpaceLink) or have linked persistent objects because of the following limitations:

* You can use a shared (static) storage for non-persistent objects only if a single **NonPersistentObjectSpace** works with these objects at any time. Non-persistent objects that implement [](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpaceLink) cannot belong to multiple Object Spaces simultaneously. When you change the [IObjectSpaceLink.ObjectSpace](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.IObjectSpaceLink.ObjectSpace) property to a different Object Space, dispose of the previously used Object Space. Otherwise, object changes can trigger events in multiple Views and cause conflicts or unexpected behavior. 
* You cannot share persistent objects between Object Spaces. 

Instead of sharing non-persistent objects, create new instances in each [NonPersistentObjectSpace](xref:DevExpress.ExpressApp.NonPersistentObjectSpace). If you want to preserve data from all instances of a non-persistent object, store this data separately. See the example in the MainDemo.Module\NonPersistentObjects\NonPersistentObjectSpaceExtender.cs_ file a demo that is installed in the following folder: _[!include[PathToAllXafDemos](~/templates/path-to-all-xaf-demos.md)]\\MainDemo.NET.EFCore\CS\BusinessObjects\NonPersistent_.

For more information, refer to the following Breaking Change description: [Core - Error 1021 may occur if a non-persistent object implements IObjectSpaceLink and is shared between different Object Spaces](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/t978038/core-error-1021-may-occur-if-a-non-persistent-object-implements-iobjectspacelink-and-is).